Documentation system metrics (#2607)
esl/MongooseIM: doc/operation-and-maintenance/System-Metrics-Privacy-Policy.md

# Introduction
MongooseIM system metrics are gathered to analyse the trends and needs of our users, improve MongooseIM, and know where to focus our efforts.
This section is devoted to explaining on how customise, read, enable and disable collecting of the system metrics.

# Consent

> To ensure the transparency of the functionality being enabled, a log message is generated on every MongooseIM node start (unless metrics service is configured with `report` option).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure the transparency of the functionality being enabled, a log message is generated on every MongooseIM node start (unless metrics service is configured with the `report` option).
```

The user is being notified that the metrics are gathered and has the right to withdraw the consent at any time without limiting functionalities of the product.

> For more information on how to disable this feature, please see the [Services](Services.md#service_mongoose_system_metrics) section.

Reviewer: I think that link doesn't work, try it [there](https://github.com/esl/MongooseIM/blob/documentation_system_metrics/doc/operation-and-maintenance/System-Metrics-Privacy-Policy.md) 🤔 
You need to put the path relative to the current file, so something like
```suggestion
For more information on how to disable this feature, please see the [Services](../advanced-configuration/Services.md#service_mongoose_system_metrics) section.
```
should do.

# What information is being gathered?
While developing this feature it is crucial for us to be fully transparent as to what information is being gathered.
In general, we capture information on how MongooseIM is being used, its version and with what feature set.
We only report the names of known modules and APIs that are part of opensource and count customisations without disclosing any details.

> User can view all the information that is shared in two different ways. Log file `???LOG FILE NAME FROM JIRA TASK???` contains the most recent report that was sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can view all the information that is shared in two different ways. Log file `???LOG FILE NAME FROM JIRA TASK???` contains the most recent report that was sent.
```
And yeah, we need to do something with those caps 😂

> Moreover, user can configure Tracking ID for their own Google Analytics account and have a view on their MongooseIM status in that dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, the user can configure the Tracking ID to use their own Google Analytics account and have a view on their MongooseIM status in that dashboard.
```

> For more information on how to set up the Tracking ID, please see [How to configure additional and private Tracking ID in Google Analytics.](#How-to-configure-additional-and-private-Tracking-ID-in-Google-Analytics?).

Reviewer: markdown requires the section name to be all small letters, and the question mark is not allowed
```suggestion
For more information on how to set up the Tracking ID, please see [How to configure additional and private Tracking ID in Google Analytics.](#how-to-configure-additional-and-private-tracking-id-in-google-analytics).
```

> Full list of information that is being gathered can be seen below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A full list of information that is being gathered can be seen below:
```
or
```suggestion
The full list of information that is being gathered can be seen below:
```
I don't know, but some article is needed xD

* MongooseIM node uptime.
* MongooseIM version.
* Number of nodes that are part of the MongooseIM cluster.

> * Generic modules that are part of the opensource project and are in use. Some modules report what database they use as a backend, e.g. [Sample report](#How-the-information-is-being-used?).

Reviewer: Same thing with the link:
```suggestion
* Generic modules that are part of the opensource project and are in use. Some modules report what database they use as a backend, e.g. [Sample report](#how-the-information-is-being-used).
```

* Number of custom modules - without disclosing any details, we are just curious to see if there are any.
* Number of connected external XMPP components.
* List of configured REST APIs that are part of the opensource project.

> * XMPP transport mechanisms like:TCP/TLS, WebSockets or BOSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* XMPP transport mechanisms like, TCP/TLS, WebSockets or BOSH.
```

> * Geographical Data - Google Analytics is providing several geographical dimensions, such as City, Country, Continent. These values are derived from the IP address, the data was sent from. See [About Geographical Data](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6160484?hl=en) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Geographical Data - Google Analytics is providing several geographical dimensions, such as City, Country, Continent. These values are derived from the IP address the data was sent from. See [About Geographical Data](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6160484?hl=en) for more details.
```

# How the information is being used?

> 

Reviewer: No need for two empty lines, one is enough

> Information collected is automatically anonymised before it is being processed further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information collected is automatically anonymised before it is being processed any further.
```
or
```suggestion
The information collected is automatically anonymised before it is being further processed.
```
but I kinda prefer the first

> Each MongooseIM is generating random Client ID that is being attached to the reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each MongooseIM is generating a random Client ID that is being attached to the reports.
```
Also... This client ID is a cluster ID that is persisted on RDBMS if any such pool is configured, shouldn't we explain that?

Author: I think this is implementation detail that is not relevant to the users.

Reviewer: But the part about being persisted to RDBMS means that he'll need a schema update, and possibly notice some new stuff in his database. Dunno, I think it should be clarified somewhere 🤷‍♂

Reviewer 2: I think we don't need to say that the Client Id is the same as Cluster ID, this is implementation details. What's worth saying / noting is the need for new table in the database. This could be done in a separate PR as an update to migration doc. New users will create database schema from scratch, existing users will need to add the new table.

The data collected has only statistical relevance and aims to help us understand the needs of our users.

> Knowing how our product is used will point us into the direction on how should we focus further efforts while developing the product.

Reviewer: This is the most important point of the whole topic, so, no emphasis is too much 😃

Author: This is echoed on what is written in the introduction. Writing the same thing, twice in separate places should be enough of emphasis.

# How a report looks like?

> Sample report showing metrics for the mod_vcard backends from Google Analytics can be found below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sample report showing metrics for the mod_vcard backends from Google Analytics can be found below.
```

![System metrics sample report][system_metrics_report]

Based on such report we can see the frequency of different backends being used with mod_vcard.

# How often the metrics are reported?
Metrics are reported first shortly after the system startup and later at regular intervals.
These timers are configuration parameters `initial_report` and `periodic_report`.
The default values are 5 minutes for the initial report and 3 hours for the periodic one.
These reporting intervals can be changed depending on the configuration parameters.

# How to configure this service?
This functionality is provided as a "service".

> For more details regarding service configuration, please see [Services](/advanced-configuration/Services) section.

Reviewer: Same thing with the link, doesn't work as it is now 🙁

# How to configure additional and private Tracking ID in Google Analytics?
The data that is gathered and forwarded to Google Analytics.

> User can add Google Analytics Tracking ID in the MongooseIM configuration and see all incoming events that are related their own system metrics being reported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user can add custom Google Analytics Tracking ID in the MongooseIM configuration and see all incoming events that are related to their own system metrics being reported.
```
I'm starting to notice a pattern where you use `User` as a proper name and hence devoid of the need for an article, but I'm not sure I'm convinced 🙁

Author: :D , we can go with an article

For more details on how to create or sign in to the Google Analytics account, please see [Get Started with Analytics.](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/1008015?hl=en&ref_topic=3544906)

> Tracking ID is a property identification code that all collected data is associated with.

Reviewer: What do you mean by "a property identification code"? Something like a "proprietary identification code from Google" or anything alike?

Author: That's how Google describes the filed in their documentation. This is the ID of the Property. There's nothing proprietary about the number itself.

> It is determining destination where the data is collected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is determining the destination where the collected data is sent.
```

# Introduction

> MongooseIM system metrics are gathered to analyse the trends and needs of our users, improve MongooseIM, and know where to focus our efforts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
MongooseIM system metrics are gathered to analyse the trends and needs of our users, improve MongooseIM, and let us know where to focus our efforts.
```

> This section is devoted to explaining on how customise, read, enable and disable collecting of the system metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section is devoted to explaining how to customise, read, enable and disable collecting of the system metrics.
```

# Consent

> To ensure the transparency of the functionality being enabled, a log message is generated on every MongooseIM node start (unless metrics service is configured with the `report` option).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ensure transparency, a log message is generated on every MongooseIM node start (unless the metrics service is configured with the `report` option) to show that the functionality is enabled.
```

> The user is being notified that the metrics are gathered and has the right to withdraw the consent at any time without limiting functionalities of the product.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The user is being notified that the metrics are gathered and has the right to withdraw the consent at any time without limiting the functionality of the product.
```

For more information on how to disable this feature, please see the [Services][service_mongoose_system_metrics] section.

# What information is being gathered?

> While developing this feature it is crucial for us to be fully transparent as to what information is being gathered.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When introducing this feature, it is crucial for us to be fully transparent as to what information is being gathered.
```

> In general, we capture information on how MongooseIM is being used, its version and with what feature set.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In general, we capture information on how MongooseIM is being used, its version and the chosen feature set.
```

> We only report the names of known modules and APIs that are part of opensource and count customisations without disclosing any details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We only report the names of known modules and APIs that are part of the opensource product.  All additional customisations are simply counted without disclosing any specific details.
```

> The user can view all the information that is shared in two different ways. Log file `system_metrics_report.json` contains the most recent report that was sent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The user can view all the information that is shared in two different ways. The log file `system_metrics_report.json` contains the most recent report that was sent.
```

> Moreover, the user can configure the Tracking ID to use their own Google Analytics account and have a view on their MongooseIM status in that dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, the user can configure the Tracking ID to use their own Google Analytics account and have a view of their MongooseIM status in that dashboard.
```

The full list of information that is being gathered can be seen below:

* MongooseIM node uptime.
* MongooseIM version.
* Number of nodes that are part of the MongooseIM cluster.
* Generic modules that are part of the opensource project and are in use. Some modules report what database they use as a backend, e.g. [Sample report](#how-a-report-looks-like).
* Number of custom modules - without disclosing any details, we are just curious to see if there are any.
* Number of connected external XMPP components.
* List of configured REST APIs that are part of the opensource project.
* XMPP transport mechanisms like, TCP/TLS, WebSockets or BOSH.
* Geographical Data - Google Analytics is providing several geographical dimensions, such as City, Country, Continent.
These values are derived from the IP address the data was sent from.
See [About Geographical Data](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/6160484?hl=en) for more details.

# How the information is being used?
The information collected is automatically anonymised before it is being processed any further.

> Each MongooseIM is generating random a Client ID that is being attached to the reports.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each MongooseIM is generating  a random Client ID that is being attached to the reports.
```
```suggestion
Each MongooseIM is randomly generating a Client ID that is being attached to the reports.
```

> The data collected has only statistical relevance and aims to help us understand the needs of our users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The collected data has only statistical relevance and aims to help us understand the needs of our users.
```

> Knowing how our product is used will point us into the direction on how should we focus further efforts while developing the product.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Knowing how our product is used will allow us to identify the core value it brings to the users. It will point out the direction in which to expand it and show us how to target our further efforts developing it.
```

# How a report looks like?
A sample report showing metrics for the mod_vcard backends from Google Analytics can be found below.
![System metrics sample report][system_metrics_report]

Based on such report we can see the frequency of different backends being used with mod_vcard.

# How often the metrics are reported?
Metrics are reported first shortly after the system startup and later at regular intervals.

> These timers are configuration parameters `initial_report` and `periodic_report`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These timers are configurable using the `initial_report` and `periodic_report` parameters.
```

The default values are 5 minutes for the initial report and 3 hours for the periodic one.
These reporting intervals can be changed depending on the configuration parameters.

# How to configure this service?
This functionality is provided as a "service".
For more details regarding service configuration, please see [Services](/advanced-configuration/Services) section.

# How to configure additional and private Tracking ID in Google Analytics?

> The data that is gathered and forwarded to Google Analytics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The data is gathered and forwarded to Google Analytics.
```

> The user can add custom Google Analytics Tracking ID in the MongooseIM configuration and see all incoming events that are related their own system metrics being reported.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The user can add custom Google Analytics Tracking ID in the MongooseIM configuration and see all incoming events that are related to their own system metrics.
```

For more details on how to create or sign in to the Google Analytics account, please see [Get Started with Analytics.](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/1008015?hl=en&ref_topic=3544906)

Tracking ID is a property identification code that all collected data is associated with.
It is determining the destination where the collected data is sent.
To create a new Tracking ID, please follow the steps below:

* Go to the `Admin` tab of your user dashboard.

> * Create new account with `+ Create Account`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Create a new account with `+ Create Account`.
```
